Remove default Pod anti-affinity rules when rack awareness is enabled (#12073)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/configuring/proc-distributing-brokers-across-zones.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-scheduling.adoc

[id='proc-distributing-brokers-across-zones-{context}']
= Distributing brokers across availability zones

[role="_abstract"]

> To improve fault tolerance, you should distribute your Kafka nodes across multiple different availability zones (racks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve fault tolerance, distribute Kafka nodes across multiple different availability zones (racks).
```

This is typically combined with the xref:con-common-config-rack-awareness-{context}[Rack awareness] feature.

This procedure provides configuration examples for the `Kafka` resource with enabled rack awareness and the pool-specific `KafkaNodePool` resources with the topology spread constraints configuration to balance pods across zones.

.Prerequisites

* xref:deploying-cluster-operator-str[The Cluster Operator must be deployed.]  

.Procedure

. Configure `rack` in the `Kafka` resource and `topologySpreadConstraints` in the `KafkaNodePool` resources.
+
Make sure the `strimzi.io/cluster` label in the `topologySpreadConstraint[].labelSelector` fields is set to the name of your Kafka cluster.
+

> .Example cluster with rack awareness and topology spread constraints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration shows a Kafka cluster with rack awareness enabled and topology spread constraints defined in the `KafkaNodePool` resources:
+
```
